--- Install and run the HPL benchmark on NCC ---

HPL (High Performance Linpack) is a benchmark that solves a random dense linear equation system in 
double precision arithmetic on distributed systems.
It measures the double precision performance of a system in FLOP/s (FLoating Point OPerations per second).
The theoretical peak performance of a distributed system can be computed as
						p = N × C × I × f
where N is the number of nodes, C is the number of cores per node, I is the number of double precision ADD and MUL instructions per cycle,
and f is the CPU clock frequency.

and is the basis for the TOP500 list – the international ranking of supercomputers.
The source code for the official benchmark is available at https://www.netlib.org/benchmark/hpl/.

The objective of this task is to install and run HPL on NCC.
 
a) Use the commandline tool "wget" to download the HPL version 2.3 tarball to NCC. 
   You can find more information about "wget" and its usage via the man pages by typing "man wget".

b) Extract the tarball with the commandline tool "tar", and enter the resulting directory.

c) HPL is based on MPI. Therefore, load the relevant MPI module on NCC. 
module load intel-oneapi/2022.1.2/mpi

d) There are several ways to install HPL (as you can see from the INSTALL file and the availability of different install scripts). 
   For now, please use the GNU Build System incantation:
	./configure
	make -j 4
   The first line executes the configure script delivered with HPL to generate a Makefile, and the second line uses the generated Makefile to build HPL.

e) Find the executable "xhpl" as well as the input file "HPL.dat", and copy the input file into the directory that contains the executable. 
   Please note that HPL will only run successfully if the input file is in the same directory as the executable.
   these files are in "testing" folder, but should have used a search tool in linux

f) Write an sbatch script "run_hpl.sh" to automatize steps c) to e), and add the mpirun command to run the executable "xhpl" on 4 MPI ranks. 
   Rebuilding the executable on the compute node on which the executable is run is essential since some compute nodes 
   have different CPUs than the login node and are differently configured.

g) Use the HPL tuning guidelines available at https://www.netlib.org/benchmark/hpl/tuning.html to understand the format of the HPL.dat file, 
   and experiment with the parameters N, P, and Q for performance tuning. Please limit yourself to P x Q <= 8 and N < 10000 such that 
   everyone gets a fair share of compute time during the practical.

h) Study the output of HPL. What is the highest performance result in Gflops that you achieved? Compare it against the theoretical peak performance
   taking into account the CPU properties as printed by lscpu for the best run as well as the number of ranks that HPL was running on.



